01-dom-begone/README.md, before:

# React Elements

Interacting with the DOM can be a frustrating experience. It requires lots of awkward lines of code where you tell the browser _exactly_ how to create an element with the right properties.

```javascript
const title = document.createElement("h1");
title.className = "main-title";
title.textContent = "Hello world!";
```

This is frustrating because browsers already understand a more declarative way to create elements: HTML.

```html
<h1 class="main-title">Hello world!</h1>
```

Unfortunately HTML is static—we can't use it to create elements dynamically as a user interacts with our app. This is where React comes in:

```jsx
const title = <h1 className="main-title">Hello world!</h1>;
```

This variable is a _React element_. It's using a special syntax called [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) that lets us write HTML-like elements within our JavaScript.

### Technical sidenote

JSX is _not JavaScript_. This means browsers don't understand it. React apps use a tool called [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) to turn this non-standard syntax into regular JS function calls that the browser can run.

The example above will be transformed into:

```javascript
const title = React.createElement(
  "h1",
  { className: "main-title" },
  "Hello world!"
);
```

This function call returns an object that describes your element:

```javascript
// over-simplified for examples sake
const title = {
  type: "h1",
  props: {
    className: "main-title",
    children: "Hello world!",
  },
};
```

React builds up a big tree structure of all your element objects and knows how to efficiently render them. This is called the [virtual DOM](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html).

It can be helpful to remember that the magic HTML syntax is really normal function calls that return objects.

### Important warning

Since JSX is closer to JS than HTML **we have to use the camelCase versions of HTML attributes**: `class` becomes `className`, `for` becomes `htmlFor` and `tabindex` becomes `tabIndex` etc.

[Next section](/02-component-proponent)

Commit message:

Clarify that self-closing tags must have a slash

01-dom-begone/README.md, after:

# React Elements

Interacting with the DOM can be a frustrating experience. It requires lots of awkward lines of code where you tell the browser _exactly_ how to create an element with the right properties.

```javascript
const title = document.createElement("h1");
title.className = "main-title";
title.textContent = "Hello world!";
```

This is frustrating because browsers already understand a more declarative way to create elements: HTML.

```html
<h1 class="main-title">Hello world!</h1>
```

Unfortunately HTML is static—we can't use it to create elements dynamically as a user interacts with our app. This is where React comes in:

```jsx
const title = <h1 className="main-title">Hello world!</h1>;
```

This variable is a _React element_. It's using a special syntax called [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) that lets us write HTML-like elements within our JavaScript.

### Technical sidenote

JSX is _not JavaScript_. This means browsers don't understand it. React apps use a tool called [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) to turn this non-standard syntax into regular JS function calls that the browser can run.

The example above will be transformed into:

```javascript
const title = React.createElement(
  "h1",
  { className: "main-title" },
  "Hello world!"
);
```

This function call returns an object that describes your element:

```javascript
// over-simplified for examples sake
const title = {
  type: "h1",
  props: {
    className: "main-title",
    children: "Hello world!",
  },
};
```

React builds up a big tree structure of all your element objects and knows how to efficiently render them. This is called the [virtual DOM](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html).

It can be helpful to remember that the magic HTML syntax is really normal function calls that return objects.

### Important warning

Since JSX is closer to JS than HTML **we have to use the camelCase versions of HTML attributes**: `class` becomes `className`, `for` becomes `htmlFor` and `tabindex` becomes `tabIndex` etc.

Also self-closing tags (like `<img>`) must have a closing slash: `<img />`. This is optional in HTML but required in JSX.

[Next section](/02-component-proponent)
